[DOCS]7.16.0 Release Notes (#1210)
elastic/security-docs: docs/release-notes/7.16.asciidoc

[discrete]
[[release-notes-7.16.0]]
== 7.16.0

[discrete]
[[features-7.16.0]]
==== Features

> * Adds the ability to configure trusted applications on a per-policy basis, allowing security administrators to target a set of hosts with specific configurations and settings. For example, trusted applications could be tailored to certain functions within an organization or for testing and troubleshooting purposes ({pull}112182[#112182], {pull}111051[#111051], {pull}110966[#110966])

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Adds the ability to configure trusted applications on a per-policy basis, allowing security administrators to target a set of hosts with specific configurations and settings. For example, trusted applications could be tailored to certain functions within an organization or for testing and troubleshooting purposes ({pull}112182[#112182], {pull}111051[#111051], {pull}110966[#110966]).
```

* Adds memory threat protection for macOS and Linux systems.
* Provides certified applications for {sn} Security Operations (SecOps) and {sn} IT Service Management (ITSM), and introduces a new {sn} IT Operations Management (ITOM) connector ({pull}105440[#105440], {pull}114125[#114125]).

> * Adds logic to finding pending isolation or release statuses for endpoints added in {es-sec} >=v7.16 ({pull}115441[#115441]).

Reviewer: The `v` for version seems implied, so you could probably omit.
```suggestion
* Adds logic to finding pending isolation or release statuses for endpoints added in {es-sec} >=7.16 ({pull}115441[#115441]).
```

> * Adds logic to finding pending isolation or release statuses for endpoints added in {es-sec} version 7.16 or later ({pull}115441[#115441]).

Author: This is much better, thanks!

> * Adds {Fleet} actions and responses to the endpoint activity log and enriches the log by showing successful or failed action responses that were completed when the endpoint finished executing the action request ({pull}114905[#114905]).

Author: In this particular case, I think the semi-colon chunks it better than a comma would.

* Adds host risk metadata to alert details ({pull}113274[#113274]).

> * Resolve deep link IDs ({pull}111984[#111984]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Resolves deep link IDs ({pull}111984[#111984]).
```

* Allows cases to be imported and exported as saved objects ({pull}110148[#110148]).

> * Adds the Risky Hosts view to the Overview page ({pull}109553[#109553]).

Author: Let me check with the feature owners on this one. I personally prefer "card" as well, but have been requested to frame it differently in the past.

> * Adds the Risky Hosts view to the Overview page ({pull}109553[#109553]).

Author: Replacing with summary @jmikell821 provided:
Highlights the top riskiest hosts in a user's environment, based on a normalized host risk score scale of 0 to 100.

* Adds the Risky Hosts view to the Overview page ({pull}109553[#109553]).

[discrete]
[[bug-fixes-7.16.0]]
==== Bug fixes and enhancements

> * The *Analyze event* option has been moved from the overflow menu to the Actions column. It now only displays events that can be opened in the visual event analyzer ({pull}115478[#115478]).

Reviewer: Add for context? I'm not 100% certain if this is just on the Alerts page, though.
```suggestion
* The *Analyze event* option has been moved from the overflow menu to the Actions column on the Alerts page. It now only displays events that can be opened in the visual event analyzer ({pull}115478[#115478]).
```

Author: Looks as though it was moved out of the overflow menu to the Actions column in the Alerts table, as well as the Events one. How about:
The *Analyze event* option has been moved from the overflow menu to the Actions column within the Alerts and Events tables.

* Halts indicator match rule execution after the allotted time interval has passed ({pull}115288[#115288]).
* Allows migration of detection rule actions to centralized Kibana alerting framework. Users may receive notifications sooner after alerts have been generated, depending on rule configuration and actions frequency ({pull}115243[#115243], {pull}115101[#115101]).
* Changes the prebuilt indicator match rule's interval and lookback time to one hour ({pull}115185[#115185]).
* Allows exceptions to be exported with rules ({pull}115144[#115144]).
* Improves the formatting of array values and JSON in the *Table* and *JSON* tabs ({pull}115141[#115141]).

> * Providing users with a new, simpler way to add data to their environments through the {agent} ({pull}115016[#115016], {pull}112142[#112142]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Provides users with a new, simpler way to add data to their environments through the {agent} ({pull}115016[#115016], {pull}112142[#112142]).
```

> * Provides users with a new, simpler way to add data to their environments through the {agent} ({pull}115016[#115016], {pull}112142[#112142]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Redesigns the welcome pages that appear when no data is present ({pull}115016[#115016], {pull}112142[#112142]).
```
Maybe I am misreading the linked issues, but I would describe this as something like "Redesigns the welcome pages that appear when no data is present".

Author: I'm leaning towards leaving this as is because the summary came from @kevinlog. Though, I'm completely open to revising this @kevinlog if you want to blend the two.

* Enables the Index connector and action for the Detection engine ({pull}111813[#111813]).
* Hides building block rules on the Overview page ({pull}105611[#105611]).
* Stops the status badge from stretching in the Alert Details flyout ({pull}116237[#116237]).

> * Improves rule statuses if the user doesn't have permissions to the source index ({pull}115114[#115114]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Improves the display of rule status errors caused by user permissions ({pull}115114[#115114]).
```

* Fixes the exceptions export route ({pull}114920[#114920]).
* Restores local storage persistence for the Alerts table and the Remove Column action ({pull}114742[#114742]).
* Fixes issues that occurred when adding the {es-sec-endpoint} integration to an {agent} policy in {fleet} ({pull}114467[#114467]).
* Updates the Indexing Time and Query Time columns in the Rule Monitoring table to be SUM, instead of MAX ({pull}114023[#114023]).
* Fixes a bug that prevented modals on the Overview page from opening when the user clicked on the *Inspect* button ({pull}113161[#113161]).
* Sets a new default indicator index query that checks indicator index patterns for matched indicators that have occurred in the past 30 days ({pull}112300[#112300]).
* Decodes file names on uploaded value lists and fixes a bug that stopped value lists from being deleted ({pull}111838[#111838]).

> * Fixes a bug that validated the form to create a trusted application when the name field was empty ({pull}111508[#111508]).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
* Fixes a bug that allowed validation of the "create a trusted application" form even with an empty name field ({pull}111508[#111508]).
```

[discrete]
[[upcoming-breaking-changes-7.16.0]]
==== Upcoming breaking changes
To improve the detection engine's rule preview functionality in 8.0.0, preview alerts will be written to a new index called the signals preview index (`.siem-signals-preview*`). In order to view this index and use the updated rule preview functionality, roles must have `read` privileges to the new signals preview index. Also note that, other than their index lifecycle management policies, signal preview indices are nearly identical to existing signal indices.

To give a role `read` privileges to the new signals preview index:

. Open the main menu, then go to *Management -> Stack Management -> Security -> Roles*.
. Select the custom role you want to update.
. Modify the role's index privileges as follows:

> .. *Indices*: Enter the signals preview indices appropriate for the role and space, or spaces.

Reviewer: End of sentence is a little confusing. Could it just say "for the role and space"?

Author: Are you recommending that "appropriate" be removed? That'd work, but I do want to keep the last bit about multiple spaces. When setting a role’s index privs, users can assign privs to a single space, multiple ones, or all spaces. I don’t think we use the parentheses “s” convention (e.g., space(s)) in our docs and it’s probably not advisable anyway since we’re writing to diverse audiences.

Reviewer: I was confused over the last part about spaces. Now that I look at it again, it's not clear how spaces are involved when assigning index privileges to a role. There's a separate UI for assigning Kibana space privileges to a role, but that didn't seem part of this procedure involving index privileges.

Author: Replacing with the following:
Enter the signals preview indices that correspond with the signals indices. For example, the `.siem-signals-preview*` index pattern corresponds with the `.siem-signals*` index pattern. Similarly, the `.siem-signals-preview-<KIBANA-SPACE>*` index pattern corresponds with the `.siem-signals-<KIBANA-SPACE>*` index pattern.

* Adds memory threat protection for macOS and Linux systems  ({pull}114799[#114799]).
* Provides certified applications for {sn} Security Operations (SecOps) and {sn} IT Service Management (ITSM), and introduces a new {sn} IT Operations Management (ITOM) connector ({pull}105440[#105440], {pull}114125[#114125]).
* Updates logic for deciding whether a host's isolation or release status appears as `Pending` for endpoints added to {elastic-sec} in {stack} version 7.16.0 or later ({pull}115441[#115441]).
* Adds {Fleet} actions and responses to the endpoint activity log; enriches the log by showing successful or failed action responses that were completed when the endpoint finished executing the action request ({pull}114905[#114905]).
* Updates the resolution logic for ID-based links to cases ({pull}111984[#111984]).
* Allows users to create host isolation exceptions ({pull}111253[#111253]).
* Allows cases to be imported and exported as saved objects ({pull}110148[#110148]).
* Highlights the top riskiest hosts in a user's environment, based on a normalized host risk score scale of 0 to 100.  ({pull}109553[#109553]).
* Adds host risk metadata to alert details ({pull}113274[#113274]).

> * Switches the order of the *Count* table and the *Trend* Histogram on the Alerts page ({pull}117878[#117878]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Switches the order of the *Count* table and the *Trend* histogram on the Alerts page ({pull}117878[#117878]).
```

> * Removes linked policies from trusted applications when removing the endpoint integration ({pull}108347[#108347]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removes assigned policies from trusted applications when removing the {endpoint-sec} integration ({pull}108347[#108347]).
```

* Restores local storage persistence for the Alerts table and the Remove Column action ({pull}114742[#114742]).
* Fixes issues that occurred when adding the {endpoint-sec} integration to an {agent} policy in {fleet} ({pull}114467[#114467]).
* Updates the Indexing Time and Query Time columns in the Rule Monitoring table to be SUM, instead of MAX ({pull}114023[#114023]).
* Fixes a bug that prevented dialogs on the Overview page from opening when users clicked on the *Inspect* button ({pull}113161[#113161]).
* Sets a new default indicator index query that checks indicator index patterns for matched indicators that have occurred in the past 30 days ({pull}112300[#112300]).
* Decodes file names on uploaded value lists and fixes a bug that stopped value lists from being deleted ({pull}111838[#111838]).
* Fixes a bug that allowed users to create a trusted application with an empty `name` field ({pull}111508[#111508]).
* Removes duplicate exception lists on rule export when multiple rules reference the same list ({pull}116698[#116698]).
* Disables scrolling when activity data isn't present in the endpoint activity log ({pull}118406[#118406]).

> * Updates the description in the import rules dialogue ({pull}118216[#118216]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Updates the description in the import rules dialog ({pull}118216[#118216]).
```

> * Fixes a faulty status API call if the selection is the same ({pull}118115[#118115]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Fixes a faulty status API call if the user selects the same status that's already selected ({pull}118115[#118115]).
```

* Prevents autofocus from jumping to the wrong field ({pull}117950[#117950]).

> * Removes validation the requires the action ID to be a UUID ({pull}116524[#116524]).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
* Removes validation that required the action ID to be a UUID ({pull}116524[#116524]).
```
